# CHANGELOG

This document contains the update log for UCT, which typically outlines short-term plans and arrangements.

For long-term update plans regarding UCT, please refer to [PLAN.md](PLAN.md), [PLAN_zh-CN.md](PLAN_zh-CN.md), or [PLAN_zh-TW.md](PLAN_zh-TW.md).

For specific update logs regarding UCT, please check [CHANGELOG.md](CHANGELOG.md), [CHANGELOG_zh-CN.md](CHANGELOG_zh-CN.md), or [CHANGELOG_zh-TW.md](CHANGELOG_zh-TW.md).

The update plans/update logs in **Simplified Chinese** will be prioritized, while other languages will be translated using GPT upon **version number changes**.

## About Version Number Changes

The version number format for UTR is:

<p style="text-align: center;"><strong>v1.X.X(f(n))(- partN(a))</strong></p>

The specific meanings are as follows:

1. **Major Version (1)** 
   - This may never change.

2. **Minor Version (X)** 
   - Changes when one type of item in the long-term update plan is completed.

3. **Patch Version (X)** 
   - Changes after the completion of a milestone update.

4. **f(n)** 
   - Indicates that the plans listed in the update log have changed.
     - The first change is marked as `f`, and subsequent changes as `f(n-1)` (e.g., `f1` indicates the second change).
   - Changes to plans will be temporarily listed in **[Subsequent Version Pending Updates](#Subsequent Version Pending Updates)**.

5. **- partN(a)** 
   - Indicates specific progress in milestone updates, with specific updates written in this document.
     - `partN`: Nth update completed within the phase.
     - `partN(a)`: a-th minor update of the Nth update completed.

## v1.0.6 -> v1.0.7 Large-scale Refactoring

- [x] Conducted large-scale refactoring based on the code quality analysis from **[Codacy](https://app.codacy.com/gh/Bli-AIk/Undertale-Changer-Template/)**.
- [x] Split battle rounds and monster rounds.
- [x] Introduced multi-battle.
- [x] Completed mercy options.
- [x] Split monster dialogues within battles.
- [x] Defined overlapping rounds for monsters.
- [x] Fixed projection box.
- [x] Fixed mask shader.
- [x] Added BGM scenes.
- [x] Fixed soul heart.
- [x] Redid monster dialogue files in battles using XML.
- [x] Archived event system data.
- [x] Added chase battles.
- [x] Merged into **main** branch.

Plans for 2025/2/16 (12)

Plans for 2025/2/18 (1, 14)

Plans for 2025/3/3 (2)

Plans for 2025/3/10 (3-11)

Plans for 2025/3/20 (13)

## v1.0.5 -> v1.0.6 OW Event System

- [x] Enabled the Overworld scene to detect and complete language packs and event system files upon loading.
- [x] Added runnable puzzles (pull lever to open door) in the ruins sample scene.
- [x] Ruins leaf maze room.
- [x] Integrated ink language reading and json detection conversion.
- [x] Allowed OW dialogues to insert original Japanese item-selection branches.
- [x] Pre-set character expressions and voices as rich text tags.

Plans for 2025/2/8 (1)

Plans for 2025/2/3 (2-3)

Plans for 2025/2/16 (3-6)

Completed on 2025/2/24.

## v1.0.4 -> v1.0.5f Preliminary Refactoring of Overworld

- [x] Added a "Welcome to UCT" editor window.
- [x] Integrated FSM system.
- [x] Added Fact, Rule, and Entry structures for the event system.
- [x] Rewrote inspector view for Fact, Rule, and Entry struct lists.
- [x] Redid OverworldObjTrigger.
- [x] Added inspector interface for TypeWritter.

Plans for 2024/12/12 (6)

Plans for 2024/12/15 (1)

Plans for 2024/12/22 (2-5)

Completed on 2025/2/3.

## v1.0.3 -> v1.0.4 UI Display Fixes and Scene Naming Expansion

- [x] Centered all UI axes in OW scenes.
- [x] Placed main camera in DontDestroyOnLoad, generated by MainControlSummon (similar to MainControl, BGMControl generation methods).
- [x] Checked and fixed UI positions and sizes for Rename scene.
- [x] Checked and fixed UI positions and sizes for Menu scene.
- [x] Checked and fixed UI positions and sizes for PPT and Start scenes.
- [x] Checked and fixed UI positions and sizes for OW scene.
- [x] Checked and fixed UI positions and sizes for Gameover scene.
- [x] Checked and fixed UI positions and sizes for Battle scene.
- [x] Replaced transparent character indentation with <indent>.
- [x] Adjusted English fonts to fix character overlap issues.
- [x] Introduced [Fusion](https://github.com/TakWolf/fusion-pixel-font) 8px font.
- [x] Expanded character count in naming interface, divided into basic letters, numbers and symbols, Latin letters, Cyrillic letters, Greek letters, etc.
- [x] Introduced spelling libraries for Chinese, Japanese, and Korean.
- [x] Added Chinese input support in the naming interface.
- [x] Added Japanese input support in the naming interface.
- [x] Added Korean input support in the naming interface.
- [x] Automatically translated [PLAN.md](PLAN.md) and [CHANGELOG.md](CHANGELOG.md) via Github Actions with ChatGPT API.
- [x] Merged this version into Main.

Plans for 2024/11/4 (1-2)

Plans for 2024/11/6 (3-9)

Plans for 2024/11/7 (10-16)

Plans for 2024/11/11 (17)

Plans for 2024/11/12 (18)

Completed on 2024/11/19.

## v1.0.2 -> v1.0.3 Bug Fixes

- [x] Fixed issue where enemy dialogue hangs after executing Fight in Battle scene.
- [x] Fixed crash issue in Battle scene when using items.
- [x] Fixed issue where typing input in ButtonLayer while using items shows ButtonLayer text instead.
- [x] Fixed issue in OW scene where deprecated box UI was still in use.
- [x] Fixed issue where the typewriter couldn't recognize <X> rich text.
- [x] Added new rich text <JumpText> for skipping large segments of text input by the typewriter.

Plans for 2024/11/4 (1-2, 4-5)

Plans for 2024/11/5 (3, 6)

Completed on 2024/11/6.

Note: The UI fixes in the OW scene are currently effective only in the corridor scene and will be fixed in v1.0.4.

## v1.0.2 - Foreword

First, I made a big mistake — since UCT was updated to v1.0.2, there have been many updates, but its version number has remained at v1.0.2. This is the result of neglecting the update log for a long time.

In fact, originally upgrading UCT to v1.0.0 was somewhat of a mistake — I thought my template was complete at that time, but now it seems there is still much to improve. However, changing the version number back would be more troublesome. So, let it be for now.

In the last update of v1.0.2, I added this file — **CHANGELOG.md**, as an update log to record the contents of each update and plans for the next update.

Version number updates will follow these rules:

1. When a **PATCH** update occurs (the **X** in 1.0.X), it usually means this update is a bug fix or refactoring of existing features without adding new functionalities or content.
2. When a **MINOR** update occurs (the **X** in 1.X.0), it usually means new functionalities or content are added with this update.
3. When a **MAJOR** update occurs (the **X** in X.0.0), it usually signifies... <small>*Well, I estimate MAJOR will probably never change.*</small>
4. Before updating to the next version, a suffix of -part X will be added after the version number, where X is the number of completed tasks.

The format for updates is as follows:

#### vX.X.0 -> vX.X.1 Update Summary

- [x] Task 1 (completed)
- [x] Task 2 (completed)

XX Year/XX Month/XX Day Planned

XX Year/XX Month/XX Day Completed

#### vX.X.1 -> vX.X.2 Update Summary

- [ ] Task 1 (not completed)
- [ ] Task 2 (not completed)

XX Year/XX Month/XX Day Planned (x-x number of tasks)

XX Year/XX Month/XX Day Completed

The completion time is the time when the last task was completed, and so on.

Plans for 2024/11/4

Completed on 2024/11/4.

## Subsequent Version Pending Updates

### UI Optimization and Expansion 
(Original Plan: v1.0.5 -> v1.0.6)

- [ ] Add a zoom to 640x480. (See update plan for details)
- [ ] Separate rendering logic and execution logic of MENU scene.
- [ ] Separate rendering logic and execution logic of OW save page.
- [ ] Store existing UI data in ScriptableObject.
- [ ] Add a UI manager.
- [ ] Add Dr-style MENU interface.
- [ ] Add Dr-style settings interface.
- [ ] Add Dr-style OW save interface.
- [ ] Add in-game console.
- [ ] Merge this version into Main.

Plans for 2024/11/12 (1-8, 10)

Plans for 2024/11/29 (9) 

### Settings Page Reconstruction and Expansion 
(Original Plan: v1.0.4 -> v1.0.5)

- [ ] Separate rendering logic and execution logic of settings page.
- [x] Refined settings: video settings, audio settings, input settings.
- [ ] Add text settings: history text.
- [ ] Add text settings: typing speed.
- [ ] Add text settings: CC subtitles.
- [ ] Add achievement system.
- [ ] Add an auto-layout achievements page.
- [ ] Add achievements settings.
- [ ] Expand language settings: enforce unicode, enforce full-width.
- [ ] Add accessibility settings: narrator, color-blind mode.

Plans for 2024/11/4 (1-2) 

Plans for 2024/11/29 (3-8)

###  v1.0.5 -> v1.0.6 OW Event System

- [ ] Add visual scene-switching window.
- [ ] Add other triggering event situations: character state triggers, dialogue triggers, obtaining/losing item triggers, entering/ending battle triggers.
- [ ] Ice skating puzzle room in Snow Town.
- [ ] Waterfall four-flower connection room.
- [ ] Hot zone steam jump room.

Plans for 2024/12/16 (1)

Plans for 2024/12/25 (2)

Plans for 2025/2/3 (3-5)